Create release-3.31.md (#4144)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/2021/release-3.31.md

    category: 
# Removed
  - description: "The old batch repository syncer was removed and can no longer be activated by setting `ENABLE_STREAMING_REPOS_SYNCER=false`."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22949
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: Email notifications for saved searches are now deprecated in favor of Code Monitoring. Email notifications can no longer be enabled for saved searches. Saved searches that already have notifications enabled will continue to work, but there is now a button users can click to migrate to code monitors. Notifications for saved searches will be removed entirely in the future.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23275
    category: Search
  - description: "The `sg_service` Postgres role and `sg_repo_access_policy` policy on the `repo` table have been removed due to performance concerns."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23622
    category: Repositories
  - description: "Deprecated site configuration field `email.smtp.disableTLS` has been removed."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23639
    category: Admin

>   - description: "Deprecated language servers have been removed from `deploy-sourcegraph`. deploy-sourcegraph#3605"
>     url: "https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/pull/3605"
>     category: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: "Deprecated Language Servers have been removed from `deploy-sourcegraph`. [Learn more about deprecation for Language Server support](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/deprecating-lsp/)."
    url: "https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/pull/3605"
    category: Admin
```

thanks @efritz for the blog post

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.31 release"
publishDate: 2021-08-20T10:00-07:00
description: "Sourcegraph 3.31 introduces UPDATE"
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/3.31"
published: false
heroImage: 
socialImage: 
changelogItems:
# Added
  - description: "Backend Code Insights GraphQL queries now support arguments `includeRepoRegex` and `excludeRepoRegex` to filter on repository names."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23256
    category: Code Insights
  - description: Operator documentation has been added to the Search Reference sidebar section.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23116
    category: Search
  - description: Syntax highlighting support for the Cue language.
    url: https://cuelang.org
    category: 
  - description: Reintroduced a revised version of the Search Types sidebar section.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23170
    category: Search

>   - description: "Perforce: [`git p4`'s `--use-client-spec` option](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-p4#Documentation/git-p4.txt---use-client-spec) can now be enabled by configuring the `p4.client` field. [#23833](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23833),"
>     url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23845
>     category: 
>   - description: "Perforce: added basic support for Perforce permission table path wildcards."
>     url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23755
>     category: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: "Added support for [`git p4`'s `--use-client-spec` option](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-p4#Documentation/git-p4.txt---use-client-spec) can now be enabled by configuring the `p4.client` field in the Perforce integration."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23845
    category: Admin
  - description: "Added basic support for Perforce permission table path wildcards in the Perforce integration."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23755
    category: Admin
```

    category: API
  - description: "Code Insights backend has moved from the `repo-updater` service to the `worker` service."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23050
    category: Repositories
  - description: "Code Insights feature flag `DISABLE_CODE_INSIGHTS` environment variable has moved from the `repo-updater` service to the `worker` service. Any users of this flag will need to update their `worker` service configuration to continue using it."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23050
    category: Repositories
  - description: "Updated Docker-Compose Caddy Image to v2.0.0-alpine."
    url: "https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-docker/pull/468"
    category: 
  - description: Code Insights historical samples will record using the timestamp of the commit that was searched.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23520
    category: Search
  - description: Authorization checks are now handled using role based permissions instead of manually altering SQL statements. 23398
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23398
    category: 

>   - description: "Docker Compose: the Jaeger container's `SAMPLING_STRATEGIES_FILE` now has a default value. If you are currently using a custom sampling strategies configuration, you may need to make sure your configuration is not overridden by the change when upgrading. sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph#489"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: "The Docker Compose Jaeger container's `SAMPLING_STRATEGIES_FILE` now has a default value. If you are currently using a custom sampling strategies configuration, you may need to make sure your configuration is not overridden by the change when upgrading. sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph#489"
```

    url: "https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-docker/pull/489"
    category: Admin
  - description: Code Insights historical samples will record using the most recent commit to the start of the frame instead of the middle of the frame.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23573
    category: 
  - description: The copy icon displayed next to files and repositories will now copy the file or repository path. Previously, this action copied the URL to clipboard.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23390
    category: Repositories

>   - description: "Sourcegraph's Prometheus dependency has been upgraded to v2.28.1. 23663"
>     url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23663
>     category: 
>   - description: "Sourcegraph's Alertmanager dependency has been upgraded to v0.22.2. 23663"
>     url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23714
>     category: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23805
    category: 
  - description: "Code Insights exposes information about queries that are flagged `dirty` through the `insights` GraphQL query."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23857/
    category: API
  - description: "Code Insights GraphQL query `insights` will now fetch 12 months of data instead of 6 if a specific time range is not provided."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23786
    category: API
  - description: Code Insights will now generate 12 months of historical data during a backfill instead of 6.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23860
    category: 
  - description: "The `sourcegraph-frontend.Role` in Kubernetes deployments was updated to permit statefulsets access in the Kubernetes API. This is needed to better support stable service discovery for stateful sets during deployments, which isn't currently possible by using service endpoints. [#3670](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/pull/3670)"
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23889
    category: 

>   - description: "For Docker-Compose and Kubernetes users, the built-in main Postgres and codeintel databases have switched to an alpine Docker image. This requires re-indexing the entire database. This process can take up to a few hours on systems with large datasets."
>     url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23697
>     category: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: "For Docker-Compose and Kubernetes users, the built-in main Postgres and codeintel databases have switched to an alpine Docker image. This requires re-indexing the entire database. This process can take up to a few hours on systems with large datasets. [Learn more](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/migration/3_31)."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23697
    category: Admin
```

Reviewer: cc @ggilmore might want to add a callout for this migration requirement in this blog post!

  - description: Results are now streamed from searcher by default, improving memory usage and latency for large, unindexed searches.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23754
    category: Search

>   - description: "[`deploy-sourcegraph` overlays](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/install/kubernetes/configure#overlays) now use `resources:` instead of the [deprecated `bases:` field] -(https://kubectl.docs.kubernetes.io/references/kustomize/kustomization/bases/) for referencing Kustomize bases. deploy-sourcegraph#3606"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: "[`deploy-sourcegraph` overlays](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/install/kubernetes/configure#overlays) now use `resources:` instead of the [deprecated `bases:` field](https://kubectl.docs.kubernetes.io/references/kustomize/kustomization/bases/) for referencing Kustomize bases."
```

    url: "https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/pull/3606"
    category: Admin

>   - description: "The `deploy-sourcegraph-docker` Pure Docker deployment scripts and configuration has been moved to the `./pure-docker` subdirectory. deploy-sourcegraph-docker#454"
>     url: "https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-docker/pull/454"
>     category: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/24094
    category: 
  - description: "The consistent hashing scheme used to distribute repositories across indexed-search replicas has changed to improve distribution and reduce load discrepancies. In the next upgrade, indexed-search pods will re-index the majority of repositories since the repo to replica assignments will change. This can take a few hours in large instances, but searches should succeed during that time since a replica will only delete a repo once it has been indexed in the new replica that owns it. You can monitor this process in the Zoekt Index Server Grafana dashboard - the \"assigned\" repos in \"Total number of repos\" will spike and then reduce until it becomes the same as \"indexed\". As a fail-safe, the old consistent hashing scheme can be enabled by setting the `SRC_ENDPOINTS_CONSISTENT_HASH` env var to `consistent(crc32ieee)` in the `sourcegraph-frontend` deployment."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23921
    category: Search

>   - description: "GitHub repository permissions can now leverage caching of team and organization permissions for user permissions syncing. Caching behaviour can be enabled via the `authorization.groupsCacheTTL` field in the code host config. This can significantly reduce the amount of time it takes to perform a full permissions sync due to reduced instances of being rate limited by the code host."
>     url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23978
>     category: Repositories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: "GitHub repository permissions can now leverage caching of team and organization permissions for user permissions syncing. This experimental caching behaviour can be enabled via the `authorization.groupsCacheTTL` field in the code host config. This can significantly reduce the amount of time it takes to perform a full permissions sync due to reduced instances of being rate limited by the code host for very large deployments. [Learn more](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/repo/permissions#teams-and-organizations-permissions-caching)."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23978
    category: Repositories
```

---
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.31 release'

> publishDate: 2021-08-20T10:00-07:00

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
publishDate: 2021-09-01T10:00-07:00
```

description: 'Sourcegraph 3.31 introduces the Private Beta release of Code Insights, complete with no repository limits plus repository-based filters. It also introduces automated migration of saved search notifications to code monitoring.'
tags: [blog, release]
slug: 'release/3.31'

> published: false

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
published: true
```

> heroImage:
> socialImage:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
heroImage: https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.31/sourcegraph-3-31-release.png
socialImage: https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.31/sourcegraph-3-31-release.png
```

---
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.31 release'
publishDate: 2021-09-01T10:00-07:00

> description: 'Sourcegraph 3.31 introduces the Private Beta release of Code Insights, complete with no repository limits plus repository-based filters. It also introduces automated migration of saved search notifications to code monitoring.'

Reviewer 3: Given that we're introducing code insights, most folks won't know there were limits and it brings into question the quality of what we're launching. I don't think the repo limits and repo based filters are helpful at the top level description.

```suggestion
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.31 introduces the Private Beta release of Code Insights and the ability to automatically migrate saved search notifications to code monitors.'
```

tags: [blog, release]
slug: 'release/3.31'
published: true
heroImage: https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.31/sourcegraph-3-31-release.png
socialImage: https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.31/sourcegraph-3-31-release.png
changelogItems:

>   - description: 'Backend Code Insights GraphQL queries now support arguments `includeRepoRegex` and `excludeRepoRegex` to filter on repository names.'
>     url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23256
>     category: Code Insights

Reviewer 3: Users won't be using the backend GraphQL queries, so this doesn't feel very relevant to the reader.

```suggestion
```

  - description: Operator documentation has been added to the Search Reference sidebar section.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23116
    category: Search
  - description: Syntax highlighting is now supported for CUE.
    url: https://cuelang.org
    category: Search
  - description: Reintroduced a revised version of the Search Types sidebar section, making the quick links for search types (for example, diff searches) more intuitive to use.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23170
    category: Search

>   - description: "Added support for git p4's `--use-client-spec` option, allowing Sourcegraph to avoid cloning unimportant files. This can now be enabled by configuring the `p4.client` field in the Perforce integration."
>     url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23845
>     category: Admin

Reviewer 3: This is not relevant to admins or users. The important take away from this change is that our Perforce configuration now supports a field that enables admins to exclude files that aren't important.

```suggestion
  - description: "The Perforce integration has a new `p4.client` field that can be used to avoid cloning unimportant files by using git p4's `--use-client-spec`."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23845
    category: Admin
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23050
    category: Code Insights
  - description: "The Docker Compose Jaeger container's `SAMPLING_STRATEGIES_FILE` now has a default value. If you are using a custom sampling strategies configuration, you may need to make sure your configuration is not overridden by the change when upgrading."
    url: 'https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-docker/pull/489'
    category: Admin
  - description: The copy icon displayed next to files and repositories will now copy the file or repository path. Previously, this action copied the URL to clipboard.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23390
    category: Search
  - description: Fixed a result streaming throttling issue that was causing significantly increased latency for some searches. This should improve the time to first rendered results for those searches.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23736
    category: Search
  - description: Updating draft merge requests on GitLab from batch changes no longer removes the draft status.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/23944
    category: Batch Changes
---

> Sourcegraph 3.31 is now available! For this release, we introduced:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph 3.31 is now available! Here are some highlights from this release:
```

<div style="text-align:center"><video autoplay loop muted playsinline style="width:625px">
  <source src="https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.31/code_insights_3.31_beta.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video></div>

- Code Insights runs over all your repositories—we've removed the ~50-70 repo limit.
- [Instant filtering](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/code_insights_filters) allows you to explore insights using `repo:` and `-repo:` regular expressions.
- [Save your filtered insights as new views](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/code_insights_filters#filter-persistance-and-sharing).

## We're moving to Alpine-based database images

We've switched our built-in main Postgres and codeintel databases to an Alpine-based Docker image to resolve vulnerabilities found in Debian. This requires re-indexing the database when upgrading to 3.31, which can take up to a few hours on systems with large datasets. [Read more on how to prepare for the update here](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/migration/3_31).

## Saved search notifications are migrating to code monitoring

> Email notifications for saved searches are being deprecated in favor of code monitoring. Like email notifications for saved searches, code monitoring allows you to keep track of and get notified about changes in your code. Some use cases for code monitors include getting notifications for potential secrets, anti-patterns, or common typos committed to your codebase. Read more about [code monitoring](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_monitoring).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Email notifications for saved searches are being deprecated in favor of code monitoring notifications. Similar to email notifications for saved searches, code monitoring allows you to keep track of and get notified about changes in your code. Some use cases for code monitors include getting notifications for potential secrets, anti-patterns, or common typos committed to your codebase. Read more about [code monitoring](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_monitoring).
```

If you are using email notifications for existing saved searches, there is now a button to automatically migrate to code monitoring. Note that existing email notifications for saved searches will be removed in the future.

## We're now indexing the open source universe on Sourcegraph cloud

> Sourcegraph is indexing every open source GitHub and GitLab repository with 1 or more stars. Users can search this index of open source code on [Sourcegraph cloud](www.sourcegraph.com), and you can read about why we're doing this [on our blog](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/why-index-the-oss-universe/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph is indexing every open source GitHub and GitLab repository with 1 or more stars. Users can search this index of open source code on [Sourcegraph cloud](https://www.sourcegraph.com), and you can read about [why we're doing this on our blog](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/why-index-the-oss-universe/).
```
Fixes link

Makes link text more meaningful for users with screen readers

> Sourcegraph is indexing every open source GitHub and GitLab repository with 1 or more stars. Users can search this index of open source code on [Sourcegraph cloud](https://www.sourcegraph.com), and you can read about [why we're doing this on our blog](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/why-index-the-oss-universe/).

Reviewer 3: This implies we have all these repositories now, not that we're working on doing it. 

is indexing -> is working to index instead maybe?

Reviewer 4: Good point— I'll update the subhead here too

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23256
    category: Code Insights
  - description: Operator documentation has been added to the Search Reference sidebar section.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23116
    category: Search
  - description: Syntax highlighting is now supported for CUE.
    url: https://cuelang.org
    category: Search
  - description: Reintroduced a revised version of the Search Types sidebar section, making the quick links for search types (for example, diff searches) more intuitive to use.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23170
    category: Search
  - description: "Added support for git p4's `--use-client-spec` option, allowing Sourcegraph to avoid cloning unimportant files. This can now be enabled by configuring the `p4.client` field in the Perforce integration."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23845
    category: Admin
  - description: "Batch Changes changesets can now be set to published when previewing new or updated batch changes."
    url: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/how-tos/publishing_changesets#within-the-ui

>     category: Batch Changes

Reviewer 4: @malomarrec Is this simply saying that batch changes can now be published from the UI? Would it be accurate to rewrite it that way?

    category: Repositories
  - description: "The Docker Compose Jaeger container's `SAMPLING_STRATEGIES_FILE` now has a default value. If you are currently using a custom sampling strategies configuration, you may need to make sure your configuration is not overridden by the change when upgrading."
    url: "https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-docker/pull/489"
    category: Admin
  - description: The copy icon displayed next to files and repositories will now copy the file or repository path. Previously, this action copied the URL to clipboard.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23390
    category: Repositories
  - description: "For Docker-Compose and Kubernetes users, the built-in main Postgres and codeintel databases have switched to an alpine Docker image. This requires re-indexing the entire database. This process can take up to a few hours on systems with large datasets."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23697
    category: Admin
  - description: "All commit search results for `and`-expressions are now highlighted."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23336

>     category: Search

Reviewer 4: I'm thinking this one can also be removed; it's a quality of life change that is hard to understand without seeing in pictures. Thoughts @abschu?

    category: Search
  - description: "For Docker-Compose and Kubernetes users, the built-in main Postgres and codeintel databases have switched to an alpine Docker image. This requires re-indexing the entire database. This process can take up to a few hours on systems with large datasets."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23697
    category: Admin
  - description: "All commit search results for `and`-expressions are now highlighted."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23336
    category: Search
  - description: Fixed a result streaming throttling issue that was causing significantly increased latency for some searches. This should improve the time to first rendered results for those searches.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23736
    category: Search
  - description: Updating draft merge requests on GitLab from batch changes no longer removes the draft status.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/23944
    category: Batch Changes
  
---

Sourcegraph 3.31 is now available! For this release, we introduced:

## Code Insights is now in Private Beta

> With the ability to now run code insights over thousands of repositories – and a new way to filter and explore your insights live – Code Insights is now in Private Beta. Track the historical and future trend of anything you can run a Sourcegraph search for, from code migrations to API usage to linter overrides. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Code Insights is the first tool ever that lets you to track the historical and future trends of anything in your codebase,  from code migrations to API usage to linter overrides – or anything else you can run a Sourcegraph search for. Now in Private Beta, Code Insights can now run across thousands of repositories, letting you then filter and explore your insights live. Reach out to your Account Executive for details.
```

> Code Insights is the first tool ever that lets you to track the historical and future trends of anything in your codebase, from code migrations to API usage to linter overrides – or anything else you can run a Sourcegraph search for. Now in Private Beta, Code Insights can run across thousands of repositories, letting you then filter and explore your insights live. Reach out to your Account Executive for details.

Author: @Joelkw @thisisvic - I recommend holding off on claims like "first tool ever" until the GA announcement. We also need to make sure this claim is true.

> Code Insights is the first tool ever that lets you to track the historical and future trends of anything in your codebase, from code migrations to API usage to linter overrides – or anything else you can run a Sourcegraph search for. Now in Private Beta, Code Insights can now run across thousands of repositories, letting you then filter and explore your insights live. Reach out to your Account Executive for details.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Code Insights is the first tool ever that lets you to track the historical and future trends of anything in your codebase, from code migrations to API usage to linter overrides – or anything else you can run a Sourcegraph search for. Now in Private Beta, Code Insights can run across thousands of repositories, letting you then filter and explore your insights live. Reach out to your Account Executive for details.
```

> Code Insights is the first tool ever that lets you to track the historical and future trends of anything in your codebase,  from code migrations to API usage to linter overrides – or anything else you can run a Sourcegraph search for. Now in Private Beta, Code Insights can now run across thousands of repositories, letting you then filter and explore your insights live. Reach out to your Account Executive for details.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Code Insights is the first tool ever that lets you to track the historical and future trends of anything in your codebase, from code migrations to API usage to linter overrides – or anything else you can run a Sourcegraph search for. Now in Private Beta, Code Insights can now run across thousands of repositories, letting you then filter and explore your insights live. Reach out to your Account Executive for details.
```

### Code Insights runs over all your repositories

> Code insights now runs over all repositories – we've removed the the ~50-70 repo limit.

Author: ```suggestion
Code Insights now runs over all repositories – we've removed the the ~50-70 repo limit.
```

Author: @Joelkw @thisisvic - does this need to be a feature or can it be included in the changelog portion?

<div style="text-align:center"><video autoplay loop muted playsinline style="width:625px">
  <source src="https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.31/insight_all_repos.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video></div>

### Filter Code Insights down to subsets of repositories 

> Once your code insights have backfilled your historical data, you can instantly explore and filter to just the repositories you care about using `repo:` and `-repo:` regular expressions, and even [save your filtered views](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/code_insights_filters#filter-persistance-and-sharing). 

Author: @Joelkw @thisisvic - An alternative: Once Code Insights has backfilled your historical data...

<div style="text-align:center"><video autoplay loop muted playsinline style="width:625px">
  <source src="https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.31/filter_code_insights.mp4" type="video/mp4">

> </video></div>

Reviewer 5: @iskyOS rather than record a new demo flow last minute late tonight, we can just use this old one from 3.28 if we don't want to highlight the specific updates – or I can record a brief flow sometime later tomorrow (Tuesday). 
```<p><video autoplay loop muted playsinline style="width:600px">
  <source src="https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.28/create_new_insight_flow.mp4" type="video/mp4">
 </video></p>
```

Reviewer 5: (And otherwise delete the lines 62 to 76)

## Saved search notifications are migrating to code monitoring

> Email notifications for saved searches are being deprecated in favor of code monitoring. There will no longer be an option to enable email notifications for new saved searches, and for any existing saved search with email notifications enabled, there is now a button to automatically migrate to code monitoring. Note that existing email notifications for saved searches will be removed in the future.

Author: ```suggestion
Email notifications for saved searches are being deprecated in favor of code monitoring. Like email notifications for saved searches, code monitoring allows you to keep track of and get notified about changes in your code. Some use cases for code monitors include getting notifications for potential secrets, anti-patterns, or common typos committed to your codebase.

If you are using email notifications for existing saved searches, there is now a button to automatically migrate to code monitoring. Note that existing email notifications for saved searches will be removed in the future.
```

Reviewer 4: No dedicated docs page but the PR documents what users will see nicely (https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23275)

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.31 release"
publishDate: 2021-08-20T10:00-07:00

> description: "Sourcegraph 3.31 introduces UPDATE"

Author: @iskyOS - can you update this description? I usually mention whatever is included in the highlights.

tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/3.31"
published: false

> heroImage: 

Author: @iskyOS @rebeccadee - here is the social image/hero image https://www.figma.com/file/BRedkGL1VSHDOjM2ci4L0Q/SG_Evergreen_Blog_Template?node-id=0%3A1

socialImage: 
changelogItems:
  - description: "Backend Code Insights GraphQL queries now support arguments `includeRepoRegex` and `excludeRepoRegex` to filter on repository names."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23256
    category: Code Insights
  - description: Operator documentation has been added to the Search Reference sidebar section.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23116
    category: Search

>   - description: Syntax highlighting support for the Cue language.

Author: ```suggestion
  - description: Syntax highlighting is now supported for CUE.
```

Author: Consider adding a sentence on what this means/how you'd use it.

    url: https://cuelang.org
    category: Search

>   - description: Reintroduced a revised version of the Search Types sidebar section.

Author: @iskyOS - can you add what the benefit is/how someone would use the Search Types sidebar section?

Reviewer 4: Yep- added.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23170
    category: Search

>   - description: "Added support for [`git p4`'s `--use-client-spec` option](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-p4#Documentation/git-p4.txt---use-client-spec) can now be enabled by configuring the `p4.client` field in the Perforce integration."

Author: @iskyOS - we can't embed links in the changelog (for some reason, it doesn't work). Can you clarify this update as well?

Reviewer 4: Yes!

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23845
    category: Admin

>   - description: "Batch Changes changesets can now be [set to published when previewing new or updated batch changes](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/how-tos/publishing_changesets#within-the-ui)."

Author: @iskyOS - link to in the URL field.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/22912
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: "Code Insights drill-down filters now allow filtering insights data on the dashboard page using repo: filters."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/23186
    category: Code Insights

>   - description: "Code Insights feature flag `DISABLE_CODE_INSIGHTS` environment variable has moved from the `repo-updater` service to the `worker` service. Any users of this flag will need to update their `worker` service configuration to continue using it."

Author: @iskyOS @Joelkw - Thoughts on cutting this?

Reviewer 4: I'd be OK with it; @Joelkw do you anticipate many users will need to make adjustments for this?

Reviewer 5: I know that we have 2-4 customer instances this will directly affect – I think it may be worth putting it here so they're more likely to see it, if we're okay keeping it in. Regardless, I'll also update CE but they may choose to upgrade before working with a CE and hit this after the fact.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23050
    category: Repositories
  - description: "The Docker Compose Jaeger container's `SAMPLING_STRATEGIES_FILE` now has a default value. If you are currently using a custom sampling strategies configuration, you may need to make sure your configuration is not overridden by the change when upgrading."
    url: "https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-docker/pull/489"
    category: Admin
  - description: The copy icon displayed next to files and repositories will now copy the file or repository path. Previously, this action copied the URL to clipboard.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23390
    category: Repositories

>   - description: "For Docker-Compose and Kubernetes users, the built-in main Postgres and codeintel databases have switched to an alpine Docker image. This requires re-indexing the entire database. This process can take up to a few hours on systems with large datasets."

Author: @iskyOS - do you know if any action is required for this to happen?

Reviewer 4: Just talked to Geoffrey; it will happen automatically, but the CE team reached out to customers a week ago to make sure they know what steps to take to ensure it is successful.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23697
    category: Repositories
  - description: "All commit search results for `and`-expressions are now highlighted."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23336
    category: Search

>   - description: Fixed a result streaming throttling issue that was causing significantly increased latency for some searches.

Author: Is this the same update:

 description: Results are now streamed from searcher by default, improving memory usage and latency for large, unindexed searches.

If they're related, this copy is a bit easier to understand.

Reviewer 4: In this case, no, not related -- the one you quoted is about backend services talking to each other. I agree that the language can be made clearer though; I will adjust.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23736
    category: Search
  - description: Updating draft merge requests on GitLab from batch changes no longer removes the draft status.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/23944
    category: Batch Changes

>   - description: Email notifications for saved searches are now deprecated in favor of Code Monitoring. Email notifications can no longer be enabled for saved searches. Saved searches that already have notifications enabled will continue to work, but there is now a button users can click to migrate to code monitors. Notifications for saved searches will be removed entirely in the future.

Author: ```suggestion
  - description: Email notifications for saved searches are now deprecated in favor of code monitoring. Email notifications can no longer be enabled for saved searches. Saved searches that already have notifications enabled will continue to work, but there is now a button that users can click to migrate to code monitors. Notifications for saved searches will be removed entirely in the future.
```

Author: @iskyOS - this may be worth pulling out as a highlight?

Reviewer 4: I'm good with that -- its a nice nod to code monitoring to encourage experimenting with it. I'll try moving it.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23275
    category: Search

>   - description: "The experimental `codeInsightsAllRepos` feature flag has been removed."

Author: @iskyOS @Joelkw - I recommend cutting this update.

Reviewer 4: Agreed

### Code Insights runs over all your repositories

Code insights now runs over all repositories – we've removed the the ~50-70 repo limit.

<div style="text-align:center"><video autoplay loop muted playsinline style="width:625px">
  <source src="https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.31/insight_all_repos.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video></div>

### Filter Code Insights down to subsets of repositories 

Once your code insights have backfilled your historical data, you can instantly explore and filter to just the repositories you care about using `repo:` and `-repo:` regular expressions, and even [save your filtered views](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/code_insights_filters#filter-persistance-and-sharing). 

<div style="text-align:center"><video autoplay loop muted playsinline style="width:625px">
  <source src="https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.31/filter_code_insights.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video></div>

> ## We're now indexing the open source universe for Sourcegraph cloud

Author: ```suggestion
## We're now indexing the open source universe on Sourcegraph cloud
```

<div style="text-align:center"><video autoplay loop muted playsinline style="width:625px">
  <source src="https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.31/filter_code_insights.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video></div>

## We're now indexing the open source universe for Sourcegraph cloud

Sourcegraph is indexing every open source GitHub and GitLab repository with 1 or more stars. Users can search this index of open source code on [Sourcegraph cloud](www.sourcegraph.com), and you can read about why we're doing this [on our blog](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/why-index-the-oss-universe/).

> Also, if you'd like utilize this open source index with your Sourcegraph deployment, you can [set up federation for your instance](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/federation/public_repositories). 

Reviewer 4: @ryphil & @abschu -- I took a stab at plugging this. I don't want it to feel too out of place by tying it to 3.31. How do you feel about including this / this messaging?

Reviewer 6: @iskyOS - looks good to me!
